# Patent Information for the RABS Project

---
**Important Note on Our Legal Documents**

Please be aware that the legal texts provided in this project,
including but not limited to the patent grant statement in this
`PATENTS.md` file and other policy documents, have been drafted by
the project initiator (frostmnh) to the best of their current
abilities. This process included the use of AI-assisted resources
for drafting and refinement, and was undertaken without direct
legal counsel. Consequently, these documents have not yet undergone
a formal review by legal professionals.

Our goal is to foster an open, fair, and collaborative environment
for the RABS project. We have made every effort to ensure these
texts accurately reflect our intentions regarding open source
licensing, patent grants, and community guidelines. However, users
and contributors should use this information with the understanding
of its current limitations.

The project initiator plans to seek professional legal review and
update these documents as the project matures and resources become
available. We sincerely appreciate your understanding, participation,
and any feedback you may have.
---

## General Statement on Patents

The RABS project is distributed under the MIT License. The MIT
License is a permissive free software license. It is important for
users and contributors to understand that the MIT License itself
does not include an express grant of patent rights from all
contributors or the project initiator, beyond what may be implied
by law or through separate, explicit declarations.

Users and contributors should be aware of potential patent risks
associated with software development and use. Contributors are
expected to make their contributions in good faith and, to the best
of their knowledge, ensure their contributions do not infringe
existing third-party patents. Users of this software are
responsible for assessing any patent-related risks associated
with their use, modification, or distribution of the RABS project
or any derivative works.

## Patent Grant from [林定翔] (frostmnh) (Project Initiator)

[林定翔] (frostmnh), in their capacity as the initiator and a
principal contributor to the RABS project (hereinafter "the Project
Initiator"), hereby grants to each recipient and user of the RABS
project (hereinafter "Licensee") a perpetual, worldwide,
non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable patent license
to make, have made, use, offer to sell, sell, import, and
otherwise transfer the RABS project software.

This license applies only to those patent claims, licensable by the
Project Initiator, that are necessarily infringed by the Project
Initiator's Contribution(s) alone or by combination of the Project
Initiator's Contribution(s) with the RABS project to which such
Contribution(s) was submitted, as such Contribution(s) are
incorporated in the RABS project as of the date of such
Contribution(s).

This patent grant is provided to encourage the widest possible use,
modification, and distribution of the RABS project under the terms
of the MIT License. This patent grant is provided "AS IS", WITHOUT
WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED
TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.

This patent grant is unconditional and shall not be terminated,
suspended, or diminished due to any patent litigation or assertion
of patent rights by Licensee or any other entity against the
Project Initiator or any other party, with respect to any patent
claims, whether or not such claims are related to the RABS project
or the Project Initiator's Contribution(s). The intent of this
grant is to ensure that the patent rights held by the Project
Initiator in their Contributions to the RABS project do not become
a barrier to the free use and development of the RABS project.

This patent grant does not extend to any patent claims that would
be infringed only as a consequence of:
(a) further modification of the Project Initiator's Contribution(s)
    by a third party after such Contribution(s) have been
    incorporated into the RABS project; or
(b) the combination of the Project Initiator's Contribution(s)
    with other software, hardware, or technology not provided by
    the Project Initiator as part of the RABS project, unless such
    combination itself is a necessary consequence of the Project
    Initiator's Contribution(s) as provided.

No other rights, express or implied, are granted by the Project
Initiator with respect to any other patents they may hold that are
not necessarily infringed by their Contribution(s) to the RABS
project.

For clarity, this patent grant is separate from and supplemental to
the copyright license (MIT License) under which the RABS project
is distributed.

If any provision of this patent grant is held to be unenforceable,
the remaining provisions shall remain in full force and effect.

Date: [2025-05-23]
By: [林定翔] (frostmnh)
